# Best Variants of our Pitch

## Smart Contracts

Writing smart contracts is hard. Some of the most-extensively reviewed contracts in the world, written by some of the foremost experts, have lost several hundreds of millions of dollars due to bugs. The current approaches already fail for the four hundred line long smart contracts of today; they are wholly inappropriate to develop the large distributed systems of tomorrow. An obvious improvement is to use safer languages that make it easier to reason about software: pure strongly typed functional languages. A further improvement is to use formal methods to automate reasoning about software and eliminate entire classes of attacks. Many teams are working on these already, and formal methods were notably used to find bugs in the Ethereum Virtual Machine (EVM) implementation. But the existing efforts, though laudable, remain very *low level*: they retrofit logic to study individual contract invocations as evaluation of previously written procedural code, with little understanding of the role and meaning of contracts as part of wider distributed applications. For the actual work happens outside the smart contract: computations, financial transactions, manufacturing of physical goods or trading of human services. An individual contract invocation is just one step in a workflow involving the smart contract, and the contract itself is only one small but essential piece, that has to fit in a larger whole. Yet *someone* is going to lose millions of dollars unless all the pieces of that whole fit together.

At Legicash, we understand smart contracts as a tool to align the incentives of participants in a distributed system. Each party makes specific promises, that if they fail to uphold, will entail sanctions: loss of a bond they posted, loss of past and future business. The distributed consensus acts as a judge; it can automatically ascertain alleged violations because they are written in terms of mathematical logic. A lawsuit follows a "verification game", where lawyers for each party produce witnesses for their side of the argument, until the logical formula is reduced to a simple closed form that the judge can check. Each invocation of what traditional cryptocurrencies call "the contract" is actually but one step of a lawsuit at a higher-level of abstraction, itself but an enforcement mechanism in a larger distributed system. In such a distributed system, many moving parts must be kept consistent: the software that plays the regular role of each party, of their lawyers when things go wrong, of the judge who adjudicates the cases, etc. What passes for "smart contract" these days in our view is only (the rules to be followed by) this judge. And by the time the "smart contract" is signed, it is too late to change anything about the system. It is too late to issue a patch. Millions of dollars, that represent the livelihoods of many individuals, will be lost to the least mistake. That is why formal methods, that alone can ensure the absence of mistake without patches, are an essential tool to use from the get go, to verify not just "the contract", but the entire distributed system with its many parts.


## Non-Custodial Decentralized Cross-Chain Exchange

Cryptocurrency exchanges have always been the weak spot in the cryptocurrency ecosystem: they rely on a trusted third party, the exchange, to hold the money for all parties in all transactions, and you have to keep your money on the exchange to be able to partake. Yet, as Nick Szabo puts it, "Trusted Third Parties Are Security Holes". And year after year, every year, tens of millions of dollars are stolen on some exchange or some other, due to bad security, incompetence, or even malice on the part of exchange officers. There would be a great demand for a truly decentralized exchange, if such a thing could be achieved. Many teams are working on the issue, and all the technologies necessary (atomic swap, verifiable fair matching, scalable payments) have been demonstrated in theory, but so far they haven't been deployed together, especially not across cryptocurrencies.

We at Legicash understand how to use smart contracts in ways more robust and more efficient than our competition. First, we will automatically generate contracts from a high-level specification allowing us to handle more sophisticated contracts than is possible to robustly write by hand. Second, we will overcome the costs and limits of on-chain computation by verifying computations only, and interactively so, rather than by expensively running their entirety. Third, we will build or amend oracles and a blockchain specifically for the purpose of linking all blockchains together, enabling cheap and reliable atomic swaps. Fourth, we will create verifiable side-chain technology for matching supply and demand: while nothing and noone can guarantee that the matching process is fair, we can hold the side-chain manager accountable by their losing a large bond for outright dishonesty, and their losing their customers if their fail to provide good performance at affordable price.
